Add multimodal search/sparse search/pre- and post-processing function documentation (#5168)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/neural-multimodal-search.md

        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "engine": "lucene",
          "parameters": {}
        }
      },
      "image_description": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "image_binary": {
        "type": "binary"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

For more information about creating a k-NN index and the methods it supports, see [k-NN index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/).

## Step 3: Ingest documents into the index

To ingest documents into the index created in the previous step, send a POST request for each document:

```json
PUT /nlp-index/_doc/1
{
 "image_description": "Orange table",
 "image_binary": "iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUI..."
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Before the document is ingested into the index, the ingest pipeline runs the `text_image_embedding` processor on the document, generating vector embeddings for the `image_description` and `image_binary` fields. In addition to the original `image_description` and `image_binary` fields, the indexed document contains the `vector_embedding` field that contains the combined vector embeddings. 

## Step 4: Search the index using neural search

> To perform vector search on your index, use the `neural` query clause either in the [k-NN plugin API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/api/#search-model) or [Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl/index/) queries. You can refine the results by using a [k-NN search filter]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/filter-search-knn/).

Reviewer: should we also mention that search take take only text, only image, or both?

The following example request uses a neural query to search for text and image:

```json
GET /my-nlp-index/_search
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "neural": {
      "vector_embedding": {
        "query_text": "Orange table",
        "query_image": "iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUI...",
        "model_id": "-fYQAosBQkdnhhBsK593",
        "k": 5
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> To eliminate passing the model ID with each neural query request, you can set a default model on a k-NN index or a field. To learn more, see [Setting a default model on an index or field]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/neural-text-search/##setting-a-default-model-on-an-index-or-field).

Reviewer: good you put this reference here

---
layout: default
title: Multimodal search
nav_order: 20
has_children: false
parent: Neural search
---

# Multimodal search
Introduced 2.11
{: .label .label-purple }

Use multimodal search to search text and image data. In neural search, text search is facilitated by multimodal embedding models. 

**PREREQUISITE**<br>
Before using text search, you must set up a multimodal embedding model. For more information, see [Using custom models within OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/ml-framework/).
{: .note}

## Using multimodal search

To use neural search with text and image embeddings, follow these steps:

1. [Create an ingest pipeline](#step-1-create-an-ingest-pipeline).
1. [Create an index for ingestion](#step-2-create-an-index-for-ingestion).
1. [Ingest documents into the index](#step-3-ingest-documents-into-the-index).
1. [Search the index using neural search](#step-4-search-the-index-using-neural-search).

## Step 1: Create an ingest pipeline

> To generate vector embeddings, you need to create an [ingest pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/ingest-apis/index/) that contains a [`text_image_embedding` processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/ingest-apis/processors/text-image-embedding/), which will convert the text and image in a document field to vector embeddings. The processor's `field_map` determines the text and image fields from which to generate vector embeddings and the output vector field in which to store the embeddings.

Author: I can change to "or".
```suggestion
To generate vector embeddings, you need to create an [ingest pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/ingest-apis/index/) that contains a [`text_image_embedding` processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/ingest-apis/processors/text-image-embedding/), which will convert the text or image in a document field to vector embeddings. The processor's `field_map` determines the text and image fields from which to generate vector embeddings and the output vector field in which to store the embeddings.
```

The following example request creates a k-NN index that is set up with a default ingest pipeline:

```json
PUT /my-nlp-index
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true,
    "default_pipeline": "nlp-ingest-pipeline",
    "number_of_shards": 2
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_embedding": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 1024,
        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "engine": "lucene",
          "parameters": {}
        }
      },
      "image_description": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "image_binary": {
        "type": "binary"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

For more information about creating a k-NN index and the methods it supports, see [k-NN index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/).

## Step 3: Ingest documents into the index

> To ingest documents into the index created in the previous step, send a POST request for each document:

Author: Thanks! Changed.

```json
PUT /nlp-index/_doc/1
{
 "image_description": "Orange table",
 "image_binary": "iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUI..."
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Before the document is ingested into the index, the ingest pipeline runs the `text_image_embedding` processor on the document, generating vector embeddings for the `image_description` and `image_binary` fields. In addition to the original `image_description` and `image_binary` fields, the indexed document contains the `vector_embedding` field that contains the combined vector embeddings. 

Author: ```suggestion
Before the document is ingested into the index, the ingest pipeline runs the `text_image_embedding` processor on the document, generating vector embeddings for the `image_description` and `image_binary` fields. In addition to the original `image_description` and `image_binary` fields, the indexed document incluudes the `vector_embedding` field, which contains the combined vector embeddings. 
```

## Step 4: Search the index using neural search

> To perform vector search on your index, use the `neural` query clause either in the [k-NN plugin API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/api/#search-model) or [Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl/index/) queries. You can refine the results by using a [k-NN search filter]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/filter-search-knn/). You can search by text, image, or both text and image.

Author: Search by is more precise
